---
title: Keynote
order: 2
header: Keynote
---

## Corporate Semantic Web - The Semantic Web Meets the Enterprise

Prof. Dr. Adrian Paschke, Freie Universität Berlin
 
Nowadays, companies seek more capable approaches for gaining, managing, and utilizing data, information and knowledge, as well as for automating dynamic services and agile business processes. The Semantic Web offers promising solutions here. The Corporate Semantic Web aims at bringing semantic technologies to enterprises. Corporate Semantic Web (CSW) deals with the application of Semantic Web technologies within enterprise settings. It address the technological aspects of engineering and managing semantic enabled IT infrastructure to support (collaborative) workflows, communication, knowledge management, and (business) process management in enterprises. But, it also addresses the pragmatic aspect of actually using Semantic Web technologies in enterprises. This includes learning and training aspects as well as economical considerations - i.e. corporate in the sense of entrepreneurial activities. Incentives need to be provided to encourage in-house adoption and integration of these new Corporate Semantic Web technologies into the existing enterprise information systems, services and business processes. Decision makers on the operational, tactical, and strategic IT management level need to understand the impact of this new technological approach, its adoption costs, and its return on investment.
 
<b>Prof. Dr. Adrian Paschke</b> is heading the Corporate Semantic Web group at Freie Universitaet Berlin. He has actively contributed to the standardization of semantic technologies  and the Semantic Web, as invited expert of W3C, co-chair of the RuleML Web Rule Standardization Initiative, co-chair of the Reaction RuleML technical group, founding member of the Event Processing Technology Society (EPTS) and chair of the EPTS Reference Architecture working group, co-chair of the Pragmatic Web community, secretary of the OASIS LegalRuleML TC, voting member of OMG and active member in, e.g., the OMG API4KB standardization, member of several W3C working groups such as the W3C Rule Interchange Format and the RDF Stream Processing group, where he is editor of several W3C Semantic Web specifications, and member of OASIS, where he is a contributor to the OASIS LegalRuleML standard. With over 130 peer-reviewed scientific publications Adrian has made substantial contributions to semantic web technologies, linked data, knowledge representation and processing, including real-time semantic event processing. He was involved in several international and national Semantic Web projects, such as the EU Network of Excellence “Reasoning on the Web with Rules and Semantics”  (REWERSE, 2004-2008) and currently coordinates and leads projects such as the BMBF project “Corporate Semantic Web” (CSW, 2008 - 2013), the Transatlantic “BPM Education Network” (BPM EduNet, 2010-2013), and the BMBF project “Corporate Smart Content” (CSC, 2013-2016). He was involved in multiple industrial and open-source software development and business engineering projects and has helped to spin-off two successful, awarded companies at Freie Universität Berlin, namely Klickfilm UG and Chariteam UG. He  served as an expert for industry and several funding bodies including the European Commission and he was general chair and program chair of renowned conferences and workshops, including the ACM Conference on Distributed Event-based Systems (DEBS 2012), the International Web Rule Symposium (RuleML the flagship conference of the rules community), ESWC 2010, the ACM International Conference on Pragmatic Web (ICPW), the Event-driven BPM workshop series (edBPM), i-semantics 2010, the workshop series Semantic Web Applications and Tools for the Life Sciences (SWAT4LS).



